there's sometimes without knowing it I
felt like maybe I never made you oxy
okay Mike applause hey guys we were back
breaking down another episode of true
detective season three this is episode
four and it's exactly halfway through
season three yes eight episodes you know
that means what does that mean make sure
you're subscribed so you don't miss any
of these brick in all seriousness though
we'll have four more breakdowns left and
you're not gonna want to miss any of
them because this season it's pretty
damn good
I'm loving it I'm really really digging
it right now again spoiler alert so
watch the episode first then come on
back here now episode 4 is titled the
hour and the day Greg I think it has to
do with time and memory I didn't get
that at all now that title also might
sound familiar because the day in the
hour was a title of a French film in the
60s and it dealt with some drama during
the war as well this is post war
obviously but you know ok so we start
off in the 80s where our true detectives
are off on a case now from just the
photo of will if they take it off to
where apparently they found out who took
the photo was the priest at this church
yeah the priest obviously leads the
church there but he also takes photos of
all the kids during their first
communion and will was one of the people
that he took a photo of now the tricky
thing here was the really suspicious
thing here we won his eyes closed
yes eyes were closed in that shot but
when when the detectives talked to him
about that he was kind of surprised or
he played it off like he was surprised
that wills eyes were closed so he might
be blinking or something yeah yeah he
might be blinking yeah okay at the same
time
read Harry I'm screaming red hair in
here this is now okay we had it like big
business last episode this time the
church the church is involved of course
right now the priest does bring up one
significant point here and it's when
Roland and hey Wayne ask him about the
last time they spoke with the kids and
he said that Julie was really excited
about hanging
with one of her aunts she doesn't have
one she doesn't have an auntie hmm so
someone's lying either the priest is
lying that Julie said that or Julie
herself obviously was lying about
spending time with someone who was not
her aunt but someone perhaps someone
that was hanging out with her in the
woods and meeting up with her I don't
like him the priest
I know his alibis good but I don't like
him
we're still in the 80s but now they
found out who made those dolls those
corn husk dolls patty old neighbor
you know graceful yes dream week I dream
Lee closed-minded and racist yeah yeah
any chance you mentioned where they live
no well I'll just assume that would have
been with the rest of them over the
tracks and Davis junction and she
particularly she remembers selling them
right before Halloween in October it's
and she sold a few that day and then she
remembers like selling like a whole
bunch there's one guy there was this one
person no really excited about these
straw dolls I mean who knows what
remember the person that did come in
contact with Julie right gave her a doll
on Halloween night mm-hmm and then the
pretty same person that's scattering
them around the body of will along the
path to find will and then again with
the toys around the woods so man if it
is one person or a group of Peter a pair
of people they they have a vast supply
of these dolls I think I think they
maybe Julie had them all and put on it I
don't know that I'm confused by that
part as in like did they this person
give it to just random kids mm-hmm and
Julie had a truckload of them doubtful I
feel like again this is something where
someone's planting something to someone
off the side yeah nothing about his face
besides that handsome ugly like I say he
was black
so racist patty did identify a black man
with a dead eye that uh who was giving
these dolls apparently to his niece and
nephews so I get on you know here we go
yeah the second type of relationship
mm-hmm all right we'll see how this goes
I just don't I don't I don't know we're
if I would follow this path with the
dolls though I mean let's remind
ourselves right now like you you do it
with me every single week it's like
everyone and anyone can be lying at any
point yes I mean it get anyone they
talked to in they interrogate Kevin just
fibbing it totally lied yes and the
writers do a great job of just putting
everything out there to make you think
oh this could be it this could be it
they're just putting every clue that I
can in game you trust some you you want
to trust and then you're like
second-guessing them and then just you
you you don't know who to trust at any
one point honestly almost every
character you see on screen you can make
an argument that they might have done it
in some way except for Rowling cuz he's
awesome not gonna lie the first few
episodes with Rowling I thought okay
he's a pretty cool character but now I
can trust that man with my life after
this episode oh the speared working
after Lou you got his love brother now
we get to see in the 90s with Wayne and
Amelia where they're having their
argument and every part of that scene
just got better and better and better
with the acting is just the escalation
and how it just ends with what sex yeah
okay okay it works that's the only way
they know how to kind of fix their
problems currently you can tell the
relationships really built on a lot of
ego driven on both sides
yes heard her wanting to you know become
this great writer and all the stuff that
she's doing in her life at him just kind
of not satisfied with where he is in
life at the 9u9 jealousy we don't know
what we don't know exactly what went
down to get him off the case and you
know and now behind a desk job now it's
reopened and he's kind of like hey give
me a shout-out back on it she's on me
back on and he's like oh great I'm happy
for you you know
remember this is apparently it's the
same that it's like the very next day
since they got an argument before and
you threw the book on the floor so it
makes sense now he's like hey hey I got
it I went back out there and got my job
and she's like come on and it was a
really good dichotomy from how we see
how they were on their fur
State and how quickly yes they got to
know each other and how how fast they
kind of sped up that remember even at
the bar when they were talking to each
other they literally kind of shared some
things that they probably never shared
with a lot of people just to kind of
speed up that getting-to-know-you phase
of their relationship and then now we
see kind of the fractures and fissures
underneath this relationship years later
stop talking [ __ ] about me or what I
want to start crying that's a first so
they meet Sam Whitehead under not the
best situation to say the least it gets
rough very quickly ya know so physically
who matches the description right like
yes he does and you're like this guy
match the description but um Sam seems
nothing close to what the person would
be like no and this is just again poor
guy is working just multiple jobs a
black guy with a scar I think or you're
dead on it this is where they're leading
you down then usually someone earlier in
that in that chain is lying yes because
there's no way that this guy is the
killer well he does say that there's a
lot of people even in the trailer park
that have messed up limbs and could have
another eye like right in he was
speaking on a much larger issue about
police brutality and obviously the
segregate the segregation and the racial
tension that was going on in the city in
the state in the country at the time so
you know he he was speaking a much
larger thing and quickly he gets you
know support from his neighbors of hey
look at these cops they're trying to you
know frame me for something I didn't do
and then you start to think oh is this
like season one or we certainly going
down that path of like the long take are
they gonna have a shootout here but then
these detectives are smart they know
better you can trust them do you not
want to escalate this Davis no they do
not
and they escalated quickly even to the
point where roll winds a little pissed
off what happens to his car there's way
man want to shoot somebody don't take it
personally
well that's [ __ ] perfect there is
also some more subtle tension between
Wayne and some of the inhabitants of the
trailer park as well you know looking at
him like how can you become this uncle
to lease officer and on their side and
taken in an innocent black man you know
4-under note with no evidence to prove
it and you know clearly that he'll was
also the reason why they got out there
out of there safely yes he was and I do
like the last exchange they had where
they're like so we're gonna just say
it's some random fee that this is the
car right because they know the place to
come back and burn that to town to the
ground if they actually said anything so
I do like appreciate that same can we
say this was an animus bandhas
we're not going with irate Negroes
so in the 2015 timeline Wayne obviously
took some interest into the case you
know he still wants to figure out what
the hell happened but now he's kind of
officially you know putting his hat in
the mix literally going to the Arkansas
State Police Station and asking his son
Henry who works there to investigate to
help him investigate and find some other
details when Scannell aggressive he is
but the thing I did that though is the
big thing out of that is really that
rolling he still be alive they don't
know what happened to his character yet
at least we know that again they didn't
have a big issue there's no we don't
know yet what happened he needs rolling
because rollin might be able to help him
remember the stuff that he missed
remembers yes but his son is probably
going to walk into something that he
probably does not want to walk into now
in the 1990 timeline when they
officially open up the Purcell case when
they reopen it up rolling West is now a
lieutenant and the prosecutors offer the
prosecute the County Prosecutor is now
the Attorney General of Arkansas yes I
notice a fun little detail on the wall
of lieutenant Roland Williams office
photo with Hill Clinton yes because
Arkansas Arkansas governor and then
would be running for office for the
presidency the year after that nice
knowing clearly Roland wes is a big shot
he's role in the best circles right now
all right again Roland West
I didn't see no one-eyed brother I'll
tell you this there's some serious ass
up in here I got to get back to church
now they have a mandate for opening this
case indicate the conviction for will
per cells yeah that's it right it wasn't
to find the truth behind the actual
murderer or to find out what's going on
with Julie even though fingerprints
popped up of hers and she's still alive
it was to just prove that they were
right in their conviction in the 80s
sure okay
well it's well we'll get on that yeah
clearly our true detectives they do not
want to follow that actually you know
what I feel like Wayne does not want to
follow that but we don't know if
possibly Roland may he may decide to go
that route in the end so I that's true
he does say he does tell Wayne
everything he wants to hear like we're
not
really do that but he made Roland says
no not at all I'm with you basically and
we have our own little thing but we
don't really know Roland's true
intentions yes not yet at least
and the same time we don't really know
what happened again in the 80s - cause
this event so I feel like both stories
and 90s and 80s they're reaching this
point where at some point where they're
gonna we're gonna find out what happened
to Wayne and role in in both of those
scenarios and then we'd open hopefully
2014-15 yeah I know exactly what
happened throughout all those years
they're not further hope officer that
you might use this new role to redeem
and unfortunately stunted career I'm
committed to fulfilling the mandates
just described as sir now can I just say
that the Attorney General is a complete
dick like mock openly mocking Wayne to
his face yes something really bad
happened in the 80s after everything was
all said and done after the conviction
because it completely hurt Wayne's
career and lifted up Rowland's I think
they're also just displaying the racism
at play there to see the second they
come in there they don't they don't even
acknowledge him so write him in the dick
head bald cop to the side of him there
same thing don't acknowledge him and
also this is the writers just again
another chance to say they maybe the
police had something to do with it keeps
you extremely suspicious on the
prosecutor's office the politicians in
this city bad guy they're mean
something's up with them it's just the
writer saying don't trust everyone you
never know what's going on it could be
them to get big business Church now the
police now you and I have questioned
Amelia quite a bit in these breakdowns
now just has a really particular line in
a conversation with Wayne that kind of
piqued my interest when she talks about
if that wills body it seemed like
someone whoever was dealing who killed
him and laid him to rest what the heck
with care how you saying the toys
it's almost as if there was an element
of affection in it don't you think
people who are kids thinking themselves
as having affection for the children
yeah some affection was used young when
they kind of laid him to rest and put
all the dolls around him and laid him
down there what prank with prank-ins
mm-hmm
it made me even more suspicious of her
aye aye you're not wrong like again for
everyone at home you're not wrong to
think that Amelia may have done it
there's a lot of clues here for that but
I just I feel like she's the number one
for the riders like card we're gonna see
she's the one we're gonna hold up there
and make you think she did it she did it
and then drop it at the last second now
we're still in the 80s and Tom Purcell
is not doing well yeah just goes to show
how both the parents deal with this cos
x catastrophe they're their children
could or could possibly bones be dead
yeah what's this anyone's missing
presumed dead at the 80s so it's just a
horrible time in their lives yes good
press charges on it Tom
lot of sympathise what your family's
going through now what I do like about
those scenes with the parents is we're
seeing something where Wayne is
eliminated from the equation here we're
just seeing the relationships build
between Tom and role in which I'm loving
this relationship by the way and then
also the relationship well short lives
relationship with Amelia and Lucy now in
that one particular scene at the bar
when Tom gets into a little bar fight a
little scuffle you know he's wasted at
the bar he does say one thing he reveals
one thing to the cops when rollin shows
up and we're all in like you said
Rowland's yeah Rowland's is like kind of
like Guardian a kind of helping him like
making sure that he he doesn't fall too
far down that hole look out for him yeah
he does say that Lucy his wife was
sleeping with the her boss and Hoyt
foods now we don't know which boss we
don't know what were the hierarchy this
is where I'm going I'm following
hilariously very suspicious not Emilia
I'm following Hoyt she was working in
here we saw the Hoyt bag and
in the closet you know we know the
influence that such a company would have
in this small town and she's sleeping
with someone a man in power in a
position of power at hide foods now to
further that theory during that exchange
with Amelia the last part of that scene
involves again Lucy she's freaking out
she looks like she's it up up just about
to admit something she's like I'm sorry
I'm sorry I'm telling you something's
going on here with the boss and Hoyt I
think we should be following this
direction for now on that's just me I
have done it
now speaking of creeps let's go back to
Dan O'Brien for a second because we got
a huge clue on him he died in
Mississippi or he was maybe murdered in
Mississippi from the looks of it they
just found his remains right they just
found his remains a member before this
he kind of fell off the face of the
earth like they because they couldn't
find him they couldn't track him down he
went back home and then there was
nothing from singing and then years
later they find his remains so it it
feels like he was murdered maybe he's I
know some information that someone
wanted to make sure he kept quiet now we
know all this information because Eliza
told Wayne this in 2015 that was during
their a little a hotel a little hotel
rendezvous now there are two wineglasses
again this is just set design the
writers they're putting it in there let
you give you another is something is
wrong here
even Wayne caught on to that to who you
spending time with I'm thinking maybe
Henry
I think Henry's could be sleeping around
here if you want to go anywhere out but
she's not Julie so I'm not going down
that right or even it's like she's
Julie's daughter or something no she
could be sleeping around here though now
one question that was answered that I've
seen floating around in the comments
section people have been wondering how
do they get the fingerprints of all
these kids how do they you know have
this whole database yes now apparently
there was a program at school years
before where they kind of printed every
one and had a whole program a database
were they I don't know if I should say
it's like a movie yeah we our class we
have to do that [ __ ] to their Pam Payne
the 90s come on we've we've had to do
those little videos and all that [ __ ] in
the past so yes I believe that we got
hit on the bike
what who that black Sunday teenager
what's then Freddie burns
now speaking of fingerprints you call
this one hmm
Freddie Burton's on the bicycle the
stupid bike of all things and the thing
is about fingerprints you I know it's
the 80s or so but DNA is what you want
here the fingerprint it can only take
you so far and it sometimes it's not
accurate so yeah it just places him in
the location at the time right yes has a
bike who's messing with the rock we know
that he was messing around the bike mhm
doesn't mean that he killed the poor kid
and we and we soon learned that after
their interrogation that he was not cut
out to be a killer that he basically
breaks down in front of the detectives
so yeah
is not a killer he was just a teenager
that wanted to get drunk and he wanted
to like just mess up mess with the
little kids you know and and steal their
[ __ ] and then tell them to beat it and
run away in the woods I have a feeling
it's is this I see the line Freddie the
one who goes to prison here it kind of
it's going down that route I wouldn't be
surprised
now another suspect that we have Brett
Woodard a poor guy could not catch a
break he's just trying to look to make a
little side cash you know some some
garbage and recyclables you know kick a
little someone change to the kids but
one of those redneck dad sees him and it
basically mobilizes the troops yeah he
obviously that was set up he goes out
there talks to those kids he was doing
this year he was like.he in front of the
man's house to get him to go out yeah
Brad made you think you'd wanna yeah
yeah if he's baiting them he's pissed
off and he's ready to set the trap now
let's go back to 2015 with Wayne he has
hallucinations my interpretation of that
is those are probably the hallucinations
of people he killed repressed memories
yeah repressed memories from that war
also there's a one person in there who's
doesn't look like he fought in the war
it's like in a suit in a tie yeah but
and everyone's heads are looking down at
the ground yeah I went back and thought
maybe it's that FBI agent from earlier
in the case that was helping him out
knowing someone that he murdered and he
covered up maybe yep and I think that
person hasn't been seen yet I feel like
we're going down Hoyt I feel like this
is that white stuff and hunting he's
going honey and this is the guy he
managed to catch because obviously it
looks like these are people he killed
yeah and the significant thing about
this whole hallucination is at the same
time he's trying to remember details
about what happened during the 1980s in
the 90s and the real coordination is
recording it and he's looking at the
report there's a car out there following
him he just shows that his his mind is
deteriorating would all of the
Alzheimer's is death definitely just
just getting up on him
Shaima give made me somebody's wet now
in the 90s Wayne finally gets a little
bit more evidence about the pharmacy
robbery in huh specifically he wanted
some surveillance video to see who was
in the pharmacy and if Julie was on
which side of the pharmacy robbery and
after spending a long time sifting
through that footage he catches a
glimpse of a woman that could be Julie
let's go back to Brett Woodard for a
second you were right
that bag ammo he's loaded the ready to
get away they shot it in last episode
they wanted us to do this he's like it
has to be a kid in there and the way if
you watch you watch how he was acting in
that in that scene they direct him it's
like hold it like a body hold it like a
body because and then then you see
clearly it's just a bunch of guns ak-47s
etcetera yeah but it was a fun little
misdirection but we could see the mile
away yeah and so now he's got his like
Macaulay Culkin home alone house set up
ready to go for the hillbillies and I
can't wait for the next episode all
right time now to shout out a couple
theories that we like on true detectives
reddit yes ready for this I am first one
I like here is based on the title
sequence of true detective season three
there's a shot of Wayne and he's
shirtless and it looks like he's in the
middle of the woods and the fire fire
around around the frame almost as if
like his clothing was on fire or some
evidence was on fire and this comes from
user MK r a ste V I really do like the
idea of this is literally a scene or a
moment when he does take matters into
his own hands
yes he covers up his own murder of
someone I keep again I know it's not
gonna happen but Mikey he does his trip
to Africa and and goes hunting but I
think maybe the guy may be hunting in
the Ozarks uh-huh yeah I think the guy
we saw at the end of this episode in
with all everyone from Vietnam I have a
feeling that's who he's trying to clean
up yeah or maybe he finds out after
listening to one of his recordings and
he uncovers the truth that he kind of
told himself
you know mementos I hope that does pay
off I hope they those recordings or
something
does pay off and we get back to that and
we find out oh there's a major clue when
he looks at someone will take possibly
now another theory that we like is this
one from Rael MOBOT nice name and this
theory is that the farmhouse near the
woods is actually owned by Hoyt I like
that is that kind of this is more of a
smoking gun if we get this at that point
I feel like because now it's laden oh
you brought the kids here you giving
them a treat you it's off the map uh-huh
no one knows about the spot and it's you
know that'll be majors thank you diet
staying there and maybe they're using
this area for kids of the community to
kind of hang out a hangout spot remember
they lost them I think it was a
grandchild the Hoyts
lost a grandchild at a years before
maybe that's motive you know in a sick
and twisted way to try to you know steal
a key bring in bring in those that are
in you know less fortunate situations
they're an abuse of their parents are an
abusive relationship will in Anjuli
you know maybe they wanted an escape
yeah they probably told them about their
family problems at the same time though
remember you know Lucy's again seeing
someone at Hoyt and it could be someone
else just because you know gossip things
spread and someone else could have taken
advantage of that too now this theory
also brings up the Westing game which
was a mystery novel and in that novel
the owner of the company actually like
pretends to be somewhere else off on a
remote island but he's not at all maybe
Hoyt never really went to Africa that
he's actually seriously been hiding in
who knows he trying to be as off the mat
you know you have a lot of money you
have a lot of power I would love to go
back to the community center and then
just cuts through and you see one dude
it's Hawaii but he's got a big fake
mustache alone or something stupid it's
not gonna happen that way but I'd buy
that
I'm liking this theory I mean thinking
about it right before Halloween some guy
in the middle of Arkansas just goes DUP
Africa on a safari for months at a time
going to Africa goodbye everyone
I'm going back to my planet now I have
to go now my planet needs me
Wow poochy came from another planet I
guess and maybe that Ozark children's
outreach program is kind of using this
area this region the woods as well as
this home that's off the map that no one
else knows about as a kind of like
hangout spot for these kids it's very
very sick and twisted idea but at the
same time I still go with the idea that
maybe wills
death and this might have been an
accident okay everyone that's it for us
over here let us know your favorite
theories in the comment section down
below
not Emilia did it do not put that down
there guys make sure you subscribe
because they're gonna be able to now
more breakdowns we have four more coming
up after this with the halfway point
like you said to hit that subscribe
button and come back because if you
don't Greg is gonna make me watch season
two take it away Frank something's
trying to tell me that
it's how paper-mache
someone's don't me to wake up